I've had messages back and forth lately
with so many vegan activists who seem to
deeply believe that the only thing in
politics that's real is the street
standing on the street standing there
with a sign standing there with a mask
standing there with a message whether
they are screaming it weeping and
wailing or standing in absolute silence
individual whether they're singing or
chanting it's the street it's on the
street that they feel politics happens
that their convictions are proven it's
street protest alone that's the
criterion for what's real it's for them
the most real form of activism and it's
the symbol they cling to improving that
they are a real activist and when
they're challenged by the ideas they see
of my channel or maybe even just ideas
stated in a email or a Facebook post I
noticed they immediately turn to numbers
I've been getting this a lot lately a
lot of really dubious numbers sent to me
say oh well five hundred people were at
that protest and I look at the
photographs and I look at the videotape
and it doesn't look to me like five
hundred people with that protest like oh
well they keep a tally and over so many
months of spending so many hours
standing in the street they say they
reached over 1,000 people that 1,000
people who talk to them maybe just for
five minutes I don't know maybe for 15
minutes pretty short street
conversations and they somehow got a
positive message back vegan message got
across 2,000 people what what influenced
you more as a child or even as a
teenager was it seeing a man in the
street holding a sign or was it reading
Batman Tintin comic books I'm in a
position now where I can look at these
numbers and really say look I wrote a
children's story book do you really
think that with the form of activism
like that
do you think it would be a huge boast to
say I reached 1,000 people or I reach
2,000 people for a published children's
storybook these aren't these aren't big
numbers right but writing a storybook
and getting an illustrator it takes time
takes effort takes money ultimately
takes talent and I don't have any kind
of false confidence here that I'm so
extraordinary talented or that the
artist I'm working with is so talented
that this book is necessarily going to
be a hit I'm not gonna claim the book
would reach millions of readers but sure
these numbers that the street protesters
are bragging about five hundred one
thousand and two thousand numbers and
one thousand two thousand over years of
hard work standing through those those
numbers are those numbers are really
nothing to me and the conversations
they're having I know some of them may
be deep I know there are YouTube
channels that carefully cut together a
collage of deep and meaningful
interactions between these Street
protesters and the strangers in the
street they're reaching out to randomly
but you know what I got more than ten
thousand people who watched a video on
my channel specifically criticizing
gnome with Chomsky and his views about
veganism the people who clicked on that
video the people who took the time sat
down and chose to watch that video they
either already had a serious interest in
these kinds of ethical and political
questions attached to veganism or they
had an interest in Noam Chomsky they
were interesting hearing a criticism of
Noam Chomsky and maybe they started
thinking about the ethics of veganism
for the first time and guys this is not
the only example on my channel I now
have over 2.8 million views and I have a
lot of videos that are an hour long some
of them are very in-depth discussions
and I have videos that are short but are
meaningful in another sense and they're
going to be more meaningful to people
who watch them because they're not
presented them at random right they're
people seeking out that message
interests in that
what have you the irony is I'm the last
person to come online and preach to you
that YouTube activism is real activism
in my opinion it's not it's not
I look at YouTube as a place where maybe
I can meet and collaborate with other
vegans and create a platform create a
basis for other types of activism in the
real world in future right
I look at YouTube as being like a coffee
shop but there's no reason to compare
the conversation that you have in a
coffee shop to the conversation that you
have on the street in a street protest
and say that only one of those is real
activism definitely not for the vegan
cause definitely not for this movement
present and future no I second I don't
have some kind of messianic faith in my
own talent I'm going to college to learn
how to bake bread it's possible this is
really gonna work out I'm gonna have a
career as a baker and I'm gonna be able
to use baking as a platform for vegan
activism and it's possible this plan is
gonna fail it's possible I'm just gonna
lack whatever talent is involved in
being a great Baker or even if decent
Baker and using baking is my way ahead
in the vegan movement why would you
dismiss or denigrate the effort of
somebody like that someone who writes a
children's story book
someone who bakes bread with people here
in Victoria who have for years and years
run vegan establishments that community
building institution building elma the
veganism that are like a permanent
placard for veganism in a restaurant is
on the street just as much as you are
holding that sign it's holding up a sign
saying veganism you know in a hold
everyman and its welcoming people in
instead of going out and and confronting
them there are all these different
efforts all these different roads ahead
and they all reach different numbers of
people in different ways
some of them shallow some of them deep
some of the briefs in the long term but
we really have to move beyond this
stereotype notion this attachment we
have to the street this feeling that the
street is the only thing that's real
this assumption that being on the street
is the only form of activism and it's
the only thing that can make you an
activist